Subject: SCO's views of Linux and comments on recent press articles (fwd)
To: doc@ssc.com (Doc Searls), mlr@ssc.com (Marjorie Richardson)
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 1999 13:49:12 -0700 (PDT)
X-Mailer: ELM [version 2.4ME+ PL39 (25)]
From: Carlie Fairchild <carlie@ssc.com>

LI has been debating if they should let SCO continue to be a member of LI 
or not, due to recent press over Doug Michels statements about SCO's view 
of Linux. Here is Doug's reply (two days after the email battles)...

----- Forwarded message from Doug Michels -----

>From owner-bod@li.org Fri Apr 30 13:36:13 1999
Message-ID: <372A0EDF.C9B18540@sco.com>
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 1999 13:13:19 -0700
From: Doug Michels <doug@sco.com>
Organization: SCO, Inc.
X-Mailer: Mozilla 4.05 [en] (Win95; I)
To: bod@li.org
Subject: SCO's views of Linux and comments on recent press articles
References: <199904282047.QAA0000013167@kitche1.zk3.dec.com> <37277F83.B08532FB@LinuxMall.com>
Sender: owner-bod@li.org
Precedence: bulk
Reply-To: bod@li.org

To: Linux International board and other interested parties,

I would like to clarify my position regarding Linux and address the
comments attributed to me in several recent press articles.  

I was quite surprised to read some of the things which I was reported to
have said.  While many of the words and phrases sound familiar to me,
they appear to have been heavily edited and rearranged to convey a very
antagonistic context and do not accurately reflect my beliefs.  I guess
I underestimated how badly the press wants to write about a conflict.  I
haven't seen this sort of reporting since the bad-old-days of the Unix
wars.

Ray Noorda made a profound, and for its time, revolutionary observation
which he called coopetition. This was the notion that companies could
indeed compete and cooperate at the same time.  In LI we have many
competitors that are cooperating towards a common goal, each for their
own reasons.  SCO believes that Linux is a good thing and wishes to
promote its ongoing success. We believe that the success of Linux is
healthy for the overall competitive landscape.  We also feel that open
source developments have accelerated the growth of the Internet and the
general rate of innovation in the industry, and that they are often the
precursor to important new commercial opportunities.  We plan to
continue making key open source technologies available to our customers
as well as to continue contributing technology and resources to the open
source community.

SCO clearly competes with some of the other corporate members of LI,
both those that sell a version of Linux and those that sell other
versions of UNIX into the same markets that we target. SCO has well
defined target markets and we work hard to create products, services and
business models that have great value to these customers.  Our recently
increasing volumes and revenues provide some evidence that our customers
continue to appreciate this value.  We will continue to promote our
products, services and business models as having better value for our
customers and potential customers than the products, services and
business models of our competitors.  As always, we will do our best to
keep this competition even-handed and objective.  

The recent articles, quoting me, were based on very small fragments of
much longer and broader interviews.  I don't have any recordings,
transcripts or even an accurate recollection of what was actually said
verbatim during these interviews. But, I do know what I usually say and
also what my belief's are. 

To clarify a few points: 

a)  I do not believe Linux was created by "punk kids."  During
interviews, when I am asked about Linux, I always clearly state my
respect and admiration for Linus and the community of developers who
participate in the open source movement.  I believe that the open source
community is often perceived as an unruly bunch of young hackers,
especially by the IT establishment, and that this will be a factor in
the adoption of Linux.

b)  Of course, I don't believe that Red Hat is in any way fraudulent.
But, I do believe that there is a fundamental difference in the value
proposition to customers between that of Open Source Aggregators, such
as Red Hat, and that of traditional commercial software companies such
as SCO.  We will continue to educate customers so that they understand
our view on this difference.  And I will continue to try and find the
right way to communicate this in measured and objective terms but none
the less forcefully.

c)  I also believe in the principle that great programmers should
"steal" great code whenever possible, so long as they do not violate any
laws or license agreements.  In hindsight, it's clear that "steal" was a
poor and confusing choice of words on my part.  I was perhaps being too
flippant by trying to point out that one can't really steal that which
is freely offered.  

All in all, I sincerely apologize if anything that I said, or am reputed
to have said, has offended anyone.  I promise to do my best to avoid
saying anything which could be twisted or misconstrued into sounding
this stupid....ever again!

Doug
  -   ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -            To unsubscribe from this list, send an email message to
  -       "bod-request@mail.li.org" with the word "unsubscribe" in the body
  -                               of the message.
 
 ----- End of forwarded message from Doug Michels -----
