 CentricCRM and LoopFuse integrate prospect scoring and online analytics with
             CRM to reveal ROI on sales and marketing activities

  - Open source CRM and campaign tools together provide capability to measure
  customer interaction on digital channels, score sales leads, and measure ROI
                    within marketing and sales activities -

NEW YORK, NY - August 21, 2007 - CentricCRM, a leading developer of open source
Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Content Management, and Enterprise 2.0
technologies, and LoopFuse, an enterprise-grade open source solution for demand
generation and closed-loop marketing, have integrated their software to provide
users with the ability to track customers across digital channels, score sales
leads, and measure ROI on corporate marketing initiatives.

LoopFuse was launched by two former JBoss and Red Hat developers in Spring
2007. The company has an open source solution that allows organizations to
track customer activity on websites and via emails; score sales leads based on
detailed data about customer behavior; handle lead-nurturing capabilities such
as outbound communications; segment prospects along a variety of dimensions;
and integrate marketing processes with major CRM solutions, including
CentricCRM. This enables LoopFuse to provide the capability to score prospects
for the sales team and measure ROI within marketing and sales activities.

The integration of LoopFuse with CentricCRM will allow corporate marketing
departments to consolidate customer relationship history with online activity.
For example the type of customer, role, buying behavior, and the type and
frequency of contact with the organization, can be linked with behavioral
activity in the sales process including marketing emails opened, links clicked,
website pages accessed and products viewed. By joining up marketing and sales
criteria and scoring each aspect, a cumulative score can be given which marks
the `sales potential' of each contact. Sales contacts can prioritize their time
and efforts on those customers and prospects that will provide the greatest
return. Once promising prospects have been identified, they can be seamlessly
placed into a typical CRM-based workflow including pipeline management,
quoting, and customer care.

The joint solution will allow marketers to fulfill the constant demand for
qualified leads to sales teams, demonstrate return on investment to all levels
of management, and deliver accurate statistics around all demand generation and
customer management activities including email and internet marketing to help
refine future marketing efforts.

Updated versions of both CentricCRM and LoopFuse that will deliver the
integration will be available for download from the companies' websites within
45 days.

"At CentricCRM we constantly strive to provide our customers with value-added
offerings that help them better acquire, service and retain their customers.
Enhancing the customer experience is a key competitive differentiator for
businesses of all sizes," said Michael Harvey, executive vice president at
CentricCRM."The integration of CentricCRM and LoopFuse creates an offering that
gives marketers great control, and improves visibility, transparency and the
ability to report on ROI, while continuing to provide the enterprise-class
reliability and scalability our customers have come to expect from us. This is
all about helping marketers close the loop and know which campaigns are
successful and which prospects are likely to bring the greatest return to the
company."

"At LoopFuse, we understand the value in customer relationship management and
the role it plays in completing the sales cycle," said Roy Russo, Loop Fuse,
CEO and co-founder. "LoopFuse helps tie together disparate systems that
marketing and sales teams utilize. This integrated offering with CentricCRM
will allow users to capture different leads, nurture them through the cycles
and score qualifying leads - while also capturing and reporting on the holy
grail of marketing ROI."

 

About LoopFuse

LoopFuse is the provider of on-demand Web-based marketing and sales automation
software. Its Open Source and software-as-a-service approach make it easy and
affordable for marketers to create, automate and execute measurable
multi-channel marketing campaigns. LoopFuse provides a robust suite of tools,
such as Web Analytics, Email Marketing, Lead Scoring, and integration with
major CRM vendors, that allows for a complete and measurable view of marketing
campaigns and sales processes.  For more information, visit www.LoopFuse.com.

About CentricCRM

CentricCRM is the developer of two advanced enterprise-class open source
business productivity applications, CentricCRM and Team Elements. Both are
Java/J2EE-based web applications that run on virtually any standard platform,
whether proprietary or open source. They have been in continuous development
for almost seven years, share identical architectures, and are fully
integrated.

CentricCRM's products are used today by Fortune 500 companies in large
configurations and by thousands of smaller enterprises. CentricCRM includes all
common CRM modules and adds capabilities such as Website Authoring, integrated
Web Content Management, Document Management, Customer Surveys, and advanced
Help Desk functions.

Team Elements delivers a complete Enterprise 2.0 team collaboration and
community management suite. CentricCRM is a founding member of the Open
Solutions Alliance and a member of the Red Hat Exchange (RHX). Among the
investors in the company is Intel Capital. For more information, visit
www.CentricCRM.com.  

